194 Which of the following activities would be performed by a process manager?
1.	Monitoring and reporting on process performance
2.	Identifying improvement opportunities
3.	Appointing people to required roles

A.	All of the above
B.	1 and 3 only
C.	1 and 2 only
D.	2 and 3 only
A

199 Which process would you MOST expect to be involved in the management of underpinning contracts?

A.	Change management
B.	Service catalogue management
C.	Supplier management
D.	Release and deployment management
C

200 Which of the following are valid parts of the service portfolio?
1.	Service pipeline
2.	Service knowledge management system (SKMS)
3.	Service catalogue

A.	1 and 2 only
B.	3 only
C.	1 and 3 only
D.	All of the above
C

201 A Service design package (SDP) would normally be produced for which of the following?
1.	A new IT service
2.	A major change to an IT service
3.	An emergency change to an IT service
4.	An IT service retirement

A.	2, 3 and 4 only
B.	1,2 and 4 only
C.	None of the above
D.	All of the above
B

202 Which of the following are benefits to the business of implementing service transition?
1.	Better reuse and sharing of assets across projects and resources
2.	Reduced cost to design new services
3.	Result in higher volume of successful changes

A.	1 and 2 only
B.	2 and 3 only
C.	1 and 3 only
D.	None of the above
C

203 Which of the following processes are performed by the service desk?
1.	Capacity management
2.	Request fulfillment
3.	Demand management
4.	Incident management

A. All of the above
B. 3 and 4 only
C. 2 and 4 only
D. 2 only
C

204 Remediation planning is BEST described in which of the following ways?

A.	Planning how to recover the cost of a change
B.	Planning the steps required to be taken if a change is unsuccessful
C.	Planning how to compensate a user for a failed change
D.	Planning how to advise the change requestor of a failed change
B

207 Which process is responsible for eliminating recurring incidents and minimizing the impact of incidents that cannot be prevented?

A.	Service level management
B.	Problem management
C.	Change management
D.	Event management
B

211 Which of the following would NOT be contained in a release policy?

A.	Naming and numbering conventions
B.	Entry and exit criteria of the release into testing
C.	Roles and responsibilities for the release
D. The risk register for the release
D

215 What is the primary focus of business capacity management?

A. Management, control and prediction of the performance, utilization and capacity of individual elements of IT technology
B. Review of all capacity supplier agreements and underpinning contracts with supplier management
C. Management, control and prediction of the end-to-end performance and capacity of the live, operational IT services
D. Future business requirements for IT services are quantified, designed, planned and implemented in a timely fashion
D

217 Which of the following statements describes the objectives of service asset and configuration management?
1.	To identify, control, report and verify service assets and configuration items (CIs)
2.	To account for, manage and protect the integrity of service assets and configuration items
3.	To establish and maintain an accurate and complete configuration management system
4.	To document all security controls together with their operation and maintenance

A. 1 and 2 only
B.	1,2, and 3 only
C.	1, 3 and 4 only
D.	All of the above
A

220 Which of these recommendations is best practice for service level management?
1.	Include legal terminology in service level agreements (SLAs)
2.	It is NOT necessary to be able to measure all the targets in an SLA

A. 1 only
B. 2only
C. Both of the above
D. Neither of the above
D

221 Which of the following statement about the service owner is INCORRECT?

A.	Carries out the day-to-day monitoring and operation of the service they own
B.	Contributes to continual improvement affecting the service they own
C.	Is a stakeholder in all of the IT processes which support the service they own
D.	Is accountable for a specific service within an organization
A

225 What are the three service provider business models?

A.	Internal service provider, outsourced 3rd party and off-shore party
B.	Internal service operations provider, external service operations provider, shared service unit
C.	Internal service provider, external service provider, outsourced 3rd party
D.	Internal service provider, external service provider, shared service unit
D

228 Which of the following are types of service defined in ITIL?
1.	Core
2.	Enabling
3.	Special

A. 1 and 3only
B. All of the above
C. 1 and 2 only
D. 2 and 3 only
C

234 Event management, problem management, access management and request fulfillment are part of which stage of the service lifecycle?

A. Service strategy
B. Service transition
C. Service operation
D. Continual service improvement
C

236 Which of the following statements about processes is INCORRECT?

A.They are units of organizations
B.They are measurable
C.They deliver specific results
D.They respond to specific events
A

237 Which process has the following objective “Establish new or changed services into supported environments within the predicted cost, time and resource estimates”?
A. Service strategy
B. Service transition planning and support
C. Service level management
D. Change management
B

238 What are customers of an IT service provider who purchase services in terms of a legally binding contract known as?

A.	Strategic customers
B.	External customers
C.	Valued customers
D.	Internal customers
B

240 Which of the following BEST describes an operational level agreement (OLA)?

A.	It contains targets that underpin those within an SLA to ensure that targets will not be breached by failure of the supporting activity.
B.	It is an agreement between a supplier and another part of the same organization that assists with the provision of services.
C.	It is a written agreement between a supplier and the IT customer(s), defining the key service targets and responsibilities of both parties.
D.	It is a legally binding contract outlining services delivered to an IT service provider that underpin a service that provider delivers to its customers.
B

247 What BEST defines serviceability?

A.	How quickly a service or component can be restored to normal working order
B.	How long a service or component can perform its agreed function without failure
C.	The ability of a third-party supplier to meet the terms of its contract
D.	The part of the business process that is critical to providing the service
C

248 In service design, which term describes services,technologies and tools?

A. People
B. Partners
C. Products
D. Processes
C

249 What should a release policy include?

A.	Roles and responsibilities across all the service transition processes
B.	Roles and responsibilities for updating the configuration management database (CMDB)
C.	Criteria and authorization to exit early life support and handover to the service operation function
D.	How request for changes (RFCs) are approved for software releases in the IT production environment
C

250 Which process is responsible to provide and maintain accurate information on all services that are being transitioned or have been transitioned to the live environment?

A. Service portfolio management
B. Service level management
C. Service catalogue management
D. Service capacity management
C

251 What BEST describes an important principle of communication in service operation?

A.	It is efficient, effective and economical for all IT services
B.	It has an intended purpose or a resultant action
C.	It focuses on creating a relationship between processes and products
D.	It has responsibility for creating policies
B

252 What is an objective of event management?

A.	To maintain user satisfaction with the quality of IT services
B.	To detect changes of state that have significance for management of an IT service
C.	To provide a channel for users to receive standard services that they are expecting
D.	To minimize the impact of incidents due to service failures that cannot be prevented
B

254 Which is used to assess business demand for services?

A.	Premium business assets
B.	Patterns of business activity
C.	Provider business assets
D.	Predicted business architecture
B

255 What BEST describes the value of service operation to the business?

A.	It supports the creation of a portfolio of quantified services
B.	It ensures IT services are continuously aligned to business requirements
C.	It defines the control of service assets and configurations
D.	It reduces the duration and frequency of service outages
D

258 Which one of the following answers shows two of the activities relating to tools that will take place during the transition stage of the service lifecycle?

A.	Testing the tool and training process managers on using the process
B.	Development or purchase of tools and deployment of the tools
C.	Training tool administrators how to manage tools and monitoring tool performance in operational environment
D. Development or purchase of tools and deployment of the process
D

259 Which three types of metric support Continual Service Improvement (CSI) activities?

A. Technology metrics, service desk metrics and Key Performance Indicator (KPI) metrics
B. Process metrics, software metrics and financial metrics
C. Technology metrics, process metrics and service metrics
D. Service metrics, technology metrics and Key Performance Indicator (KPI) metrics
C

260 Which of the following are CORRECT Service Design Aspects?
1.	Service Solutions for new or changed services
2.	Management policies and guidelines
3.	Business requirements technology and management architectures
4.	Process requirements technology and management architectures

A.	1 and 2
B.	2 and 3
C.	3 and 4
D.	1 and 4
D

261 Which stage of the service lifecycle includes the scope of service retirement and transfer of services between service providers?

A.	Service transition
B.	Service level management
C.	Service operation
D.	Service design
A

263 Which is an objective of the design coordination process?

A.	To ensure service design packages are handed over to service transition
B.	To ensure that all changes are assessed for their impact on service designs
C.	To	document the initial structure and relationship between services and customers
D.	To handover new service level requirements to the service level management process
A

267 Which is the CORRECT activity to carry out the “How do we get there” phase of the Continual Service improvement approach?

A.	Service and process improvement
B.	Baseline assessments
C.	Policy and governance review
D.	Measurable targets
A

268 An incident is proving difficult to resolve. A technician informs their manager that more resource is needed to restore the service. What has taken place?

A.	A functional escalation
B.	A service level escalation
C.	An incident resolution
D.	A hierarchic escalation
D

272 What term describes assurance that a product or service will meet its agreed requirements?

A. Underpinning contract
B. Warranty
C. Service level agreement
D. Utility
B

274 Which is an objective of the service design lifecycle stage?

A. To embed continual service improvement (CSI) in all service design activities
B. To ensure that all service design activities use the minimum amount of resources
C. To monitor service level targets as agreed in service level agreements
D. To create and maintain a portfolio of quantified service
A

276 Which is an example of improving service utility using service management automation?

A. Pre-determined routing of a service request
B. Reducing the time to compile service data
C. Monitoring service availability
D. Faster resource allocation
d

277 Which is the CORRECT list of metrics to support CSI activities?

A. Technology, customer and business
B. Business, service and technology
C. Customer, business and process
D. Process, technology and service
D

279 Which is the CORRECT list of the three levels of a multi-level service level agreement (SLA)?

A. Technology, customer, user
B. Corporate, customer, service
C. Corporate, customer, technology
D. Service, user, IT
B

280 What does the term “Wisdom” represent within the Data-to-Information-to-Knowledge-to-Wisdom (DIKW)?

A. The complete collection of all data and data repositories in the organization
B. The knowledge to manage organization processes and people
C. The complete collection of all process management structures in the organization
D. The contextual awareness to provide strong common sense judgement
D

284 Which statement about the known error database (KEDB) is CORRECT?

A. It is maintained by the service desk and updated with the details of each new incident
B. It is a part of the configuration management database (CMDB) and contains workarounds
C. It is maintained by problem management and is used by the service desk to help resolve incidents
D. It is maintained by incident management and contains solutions to be implemented by problem management
C

286 Which is one of the five aspects of service design?

A. Management information systems and tools
B. Risk analysis and management approach
C. Management policy for business case creation
D. Corporate governance and policy
A

290 Which of the following is an example of proactive problem management?

A. Automated detection of an infrastructure or application fault, using event/alert tools automatically to raise an incident
B. Analysis of an incident by a technical support group which revels that an underlying problem exists, or is likely to exist
C. Suspicion or detection of a cause of one or more incidents by the service desk
D. Trending of historical incident records to identify one or more underlying causes
B










